---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Installation

This document will walk you through the process of installing Subjektify in your project. By the end of this guide, you will have the necessary tools installed to begin developing decentralized applications (dApps) within the Web3 ecosystem.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin the installation process, ensure your system meets the following requirements:

- **Node.js**: Subjektify requires Node.js to run. Install the latest LTS version of Node.js from [Node.js official website](https://nodejs.org/).
- **Git**: You will need Git for version control and to clone repositories. Download it from [Git's official site](https://git-scm.com/downloads).
- **A Text Editor**: We recommend using Visual Studio Code for a streamlined development experience. Download it from [Visual Studio Code's website](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

:::tip
Download the [Subjektify VSCode extension](#) for an even more streamlined experience.
:::

## Scaffold a New Namespace

To start a new Subjektify project, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
npx subjektify create
```

This command initializes a new project with the necessary configuration files and directory structure under the `my-namespace` folder. You can replace `my-namespace` with any name you choose for your project.

## Add to an Existing Project

If you want to incorporate Subjektify into an existing project, navigate to your project directory and run:

```bash
npx subjektify init
```

This command adds the required Subjektify configuration files and folders to your existing project, enabling you to start integrating Subjektify features without disrupting existing code.

## Project Structure

Understanding the project structure generated by Subjektify is crucial for efficient development. Here is a breakdown of the key directories:

```
my-namespace
├── subjects
│   ├── universe.subjekt
├── src
│   ├── css
│   │   └── custom.css
│   └── index.js
├── static
│   └── img
├── subjektify.config.(js|ts)
├── package.json
├── README.md
└── yarn.lock
```

### Directory and File Details

- **`subjects/`**: This directory contains files defining the subjects in your project, using the Subjekt Interface Definition Language (Subjekt IDL). These files help in modeling the data and behavior of your dApp.
- **`src/`**: The source directory where your application's frontend code resides. It typically includes JavaScript, CSS, and other assets needed to build the user interface.
  - **`css/`**: Contains cascading style sheets for styling the frontend of your application.
  - **`index.js`**: The main JavaScript file that often acts as the entry point for React or other JavaScript frameworks.
- **`static/`**: Stores static resources like images, fonts, and other files that don't require processing. They are served as-is to clients.
  - **`img/`**: Specific folder for storing image files used in the project.
- **`subjektify.config.(js|ts)`**: The main configuration file for your Subjektify project. It specifies how the project should be built and run, including configurations for plugins and other settings.
- **`package.json`**: Manages npm package dependencies for your project. It includes scripts and dependencies necessary for building and running your application.
- **`README.md`**: A markdown file providing a basic introduction to your project, setup instructions, and other essential information.

## Running the Development Server

To start the development server, which will allow real-time reloading as you develop your application, run:

```bash
npx subjektify start
```

This command will launch a local development server and open your project in a web browser.

## Codegen

Generate necessary client-side libraries or server stubs using Subjektify’s code generation tool:

```bash
npx subjektify codegen
```

This will process your project's smart contracts and other resources to produce interoperable code that can be used in your dApp frontend or backend.

## Build

When you are ready to compile your project, use:

```bash
npx subjektify build
```

This command compiles your smart contracts and prepares your project for deployment.

## Versioning

Managing versions within Subjektify is straightforward. Update your `subjektify.json` to reflect new versions as you iterate your project:

```json
{
  "version": "1.0.1"
}
```

Each version update should correspond to substantial changes or enhancements in your dApp.

By following this guide, you should have a fully functional development environment ready for building decentralized applications. Keep exploring Subjektify’s features to maximize your productivity and impact in the Web3 space.